	Chapter 7. Service and Application Version Detection

- nmap uses a database, nmap-services, to map ports to more than 2,200 well-known services
- this lookup is usually accurate


Why do a "service and app version detection"?
- maybe people run services on different ports
- you really want to know which servers and versions are running
	(having an accurate version number helps dramatically in determining which exploits a server is vulnerable to)
- many services share the same port number



High speed, parallel operation via non-blocking sockets
Determines the application name and version number where available—not just the service protocol.

---------------------------------------------
examples
nmap -A -T4 -F www.microsoft.com
-A (aggressive) = Enables OS detection and Version detection, Script scanning and Traceroute
-sV = enables version detection
-F = tells Nmap to scan only ports registered in nmap-services.

-----------------------------
Technique
for an open port
	if excluded
		leave

	connect tcp
	listen 5 seconds on it: Many common services (FTP, SSH, SMTP, Telnet, POP3, and IMAP servers) identify themselves
					in an initial welcome banner
				"NULL probe":  Nmap just listens for responses without sending any probe data
		If the service is fully identified
			leave (we are done with that port)

	/* not identified or soft-match */
	close TCP connection
	start UDB probe
		every probe has a list of port numbers that are considered to be most effective.
		For example, the probe called GetRequest that recognizes web servers (among other services)
		lists 80-85, 8000-8010, and 8080-8085 as probable ports.

		Each probe includes a probe string which is sent to the port
		Responses that come back are compared to a list of regular expressions

	in most cases, NULL probe will suffice

probe rarity = an indication of how likely the probe is to return useful data
to control how many probes are tried when performing a version scan, choose an intensity level appropriate for a scan
the higher an intensity level, the more probes will be tried.
So if a very comprehensive scan is desired, a high intensity level is appropriate—even though
it may take longer than a scan conducted at a lower intensity level.
Nmap's default intensity level is 7 but Nmap provides the following switches for different scanning needs:
--version-intensity <intensity level between 0 and 9>
nmap -sSV -T4 -F -d --version-trace insecure.org

-------------------------------------------
Post-processors

Nmap is usually finished working on a port once it has deduced the service and version information.
However, there are certain services for which Nmap performs additional work.

1. Nmap Scripting Engine Integration
Some services cannot be recognized by simply sending a standard probe and matching a pattern to the response
(Skype v2 service was designed to be difficult to detect due to the risk that incumbent carriers
(such as phone companies providing DSL lines) would consider them a competitor and degrade or block the service from their subscribers)


2. RPC Grinding

SunRPC (Sun Remote Procedure Call) is a common Unix protocol used to implement many services including NFS


