EIP register always contains the address of the next instruction to be executed.
    EIP Instruction Pointer Register

ESP register serves as an indirect memory operand pointing to the top of the stack at any time
    As program adds data to the stack, the stack grows downward from high memory to low memory. 
    When items are removed from the stack, stack shrinks upward from low to high memory.



--------
PIC: machine code that, being placed somewhere in the primary memory, executes properly regardless of its absolute address.
-  commonly used for shared libraries, so that the same library code can be loaded in a location in each program address space 
where it will not overlap any other uses of memory (for example, other shared libraries).
- can be executed at any memory address without modification

relocatable code = a link editor or program loader modifies a program before execution so it can be run only from a particular memory location.

--------
Position-independent executables (PIE) are executable binaries made entirely from position-independent code (PIC)
- allows address space layout randomization to prevent attackers from knowing 
where existing executable code is during a security attack using exploits that rely on knowing the offset of the executable code in the binary (Return-to-libc attack)

Return-to-libc attack
- usually starts with a buffer overflow in which a subroutine return address on a call stack is replaced by an address of a subroutine that is already present in the process’ executable memory, 
bypassing the NX (no-execute) bit feature (if present) and ridding the attacker of the need to inject their own code.

NX bit No-eXecute
    a technology used in CPUs to segregate areas of memory for use by either storage of processor instructions (code) or for storage of data

--------
Address space layout randomization
- ASLR randomly arranges the address space positions of key data areas of a process, including the base of the executable and the positions of the stack, heap and libraries.
- makes it more difficult for an attacker to predict target addresses.

-----
rpath = run-time search path hard-coded in an executable file or library, used during dynamic linking to find the libraries the executable or library requires. 
Specifically it encodes a path to shared libraries into the header of an executable (or another shared library).


------
FORTIFY_SOURCE 
    is a Glibc feature which adds memory and string function protection.
RELRO (relocate readonly)
    is a mechanism preventing some kinds of memory corruption attacks. It reorders ELF internal data sections and marks them read-only. 
    -z relro
    -z relro -z now
fstack-protector flag
    The basic idea behind stack protection is to push a "canary" (a randomly chosen integer) on the stack just after the function return pointer has been pushed. 
    The canary value is then checked before the function returns; if it has changed, the program will abort
    
int getCurrentId()
{
    static QAtomicInt s_idGenerator(0);
    return s_idGenerator.fetchAndAddRelaxed(1);
}
    
QString createName()
{
    return "waiter#" + QString::number(getCurrentId());
}